All right we'll come back.
So now let's talk about selecting rows from our database using Python.
So as we've seen before we write a BASIC sequel query we do as cursor execute whatever that query is.
And then in this case it's a little different though because we get something back and we weren't getting
something back earlier.
We were simply inserting data or creating a table.
And it's basically done.
There's nothing that comes back for us here.
We want the data that comes back.
And so we talk about a couple of ways of either iterating over it or converting that data into an array
or list doing something with it.
So let's say I just want to select like every friend that we have in the database so it would just be
select star from friends like that and then we could do a seed execute.
And then of course we want to print it out or something but we can't really just do print.
See if we did that I'll never know what will happen.
You can try it.
All right so we get this cursor object that comes back and it is an iterator so we can iterate over
it.
So that's one option we could say for result in see print results just like that.
And there we go.
So it's an iterator where we can iterate over it and get each sort of row that matched our selection
and we can do something with them.
But if we wanted them all in the form of a list for example instead of iterating one at a time there's
another option.
So when it comes to that out we can do see Dot fetch all.
And this is going to give us a list that contains all of the results.
So if we do it this way.
Well I need to print it out so that you can see that.
And now you can see they are coming back all together in a single list.
So if we were trying to do something else with them I don't know what exactly maybe Bache insert into
another table or you wanted them in a list for some reason.
This is how you would do that.
Alternatively if you just want the first result like we do instead of select start from friends say
select start from friends where name equals or name is Rosa.
We have multiple roses right now.
Well Rosa Parks multiple times.
Let's say I just want the first one.
OK.
So we could do that fetch all or fetch one and they all leave both of them in here so fetch one just
like that.
And if we print that up no such column name first name where we go now it only gives us the first one.
OK I updated this to include some comments so we can iterate over the cursor and then print each one
or do something with it.
We can also fetch a single result with the fat one and we can fetch all with fetch all and it returns
a list.
And let's just do another query that is a little more complicated.
Let's just do select start from friends instead of for first name is Rosa let's just like start from
friends where closeness is greater than what are we looking at for our values greater than five.
And then order by which is something we haven't really seen order by closeness.
So now the data will be sorted by that closeness as it comes back but only friends where the closeness
value is greater than five.
And instead of fecche one let's do fetchmail and let's see what we get.
OK.
So you can see if we go from 7 we have a couple of duplicates of everything or almost everything up
until my best friend Steve Irwin.
We're very close.
Nine out of 10.
Closeness.
OK so that's the basics of selecting things really it's the exact same process.
It's just that data is returned back and we have a couple of options for handling it.
Iterating over it fetching one or fetching all to get a list.
Now I haven't shown you what I'm going to do in the next video is talk about how you would do dynamic
queries so select something based off of a variable like select all from friends where I don't know
name it first name is equal to something that's coming from a form and it's the same idea as what we
did when we're inserting data.
But I'm going to show you what would happen if you did it incorrectly.
How somebody could just ruin your database.
So that's coming up.